American Standard Version

This Bible is in the Public Domain.


Genesis 1:1 In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.
Genesis 1:2 And the earth was waste and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep: and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.
Genesis 1:3 And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.
Genesis 1:4 And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness.
Genesis 1:5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, one day.
Genesis 1:6 And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.
Genesis 1:7 And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: and it was so.
Genesis 1:8 And God called the firmament Heaven. And there was evening and there was morning, a second day.
Genesis 1:9 And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so.
Genesis 1:10 And God called the dry land Earth; and the gathering together of the waters called he Seas: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:11 And God said, Let the earthjogput forth grass, herbs yielding seed, [and] fruit-trees bearing fruit after their kind, wherein is the seed thereof, upon the earth: and it was so.
Genesis 1:12 And the earth brought forth grass, herbs yielding seed after their kind, and trees bearing fruit, wherein is the seed thereof, after their kind: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:13 And there was evening and there was morning, a third day.
Genesis 1:14 And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days and years:
Genesis 1:15 and let them be for lights in the firmament of heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was so.
Genesis 1:16 And God made the two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: [he made] the stars also.
Genesis 1:17 And God set them in the firmament of heaven to give light upon the earth,
Genesis 1:18 and to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:19 And there was evening and there was morning, a fourth day.
Genesis 1:20 And God said, Let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven.
Genesis 1:21 And God created the great sea-monsters, and every living creature that moveth, wherewith the waters swarmed, after their kind, and every winged bird after its kind: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:22 And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth.
Genesis 1:23 And there was evening and there was morning, a fifth day.
Genesis 1:24 And God said, Let the earth bring forth living creatures after their kind, cattle, and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind: and it was so.
Genesis 1:25 And God made the beasts of the earth after their kind, and the cattle after their kind, and everything that creepeth upon the ground after its kind: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:26 And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.
Genesis 1:27 And God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them.
Genesis 1:28 And God blessed them: and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it; and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.
Genesis 1:29 And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb yielding seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for food:
Genesis 1:30 and to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and to everything that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is life, [I have given] every green herb for food: and it was so.
Genesis 1:31 And God saw everything that he had made, and, behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning, the sixth day.
Genesis 2:1 And the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them.
Genesis 2:2 And on the seventh day God finished his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.
Genesis 2:3 And God blessed the seventh day, and hallowed it; because that in it he rested from all his work which God had created and made.
Genesis 2:4 These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that Jehovah God made earth and heaven.
Genesis 2:5 And no plant of the field was yet in the earth, and no herb of the field had yet sprung up; for Jehovah God had not caused it to rain upon the earth: and there was not a man to till the ground;
Genesis 2:6 but there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground.
Genesis 2:7 And Jehovah God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul.
Genesis 2:8 And Jehovah God planted a garden eastward, in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed.
Genesis 2:9 And out of the ground made Jehovah God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
Genesis 2:10 And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became four heads.
Genesis 2:11 The name of the first is Pishon: that is it which compasseth the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold;
Genesis 2:12 and the gold of that land is good: there is bdellium and the onyx stone.
Genesis 2:13 And the name of the second river is Gihon: the same is it that compasseth the whole land of Cush.
Genesis 2:14 And the name of the third river is Hiddekel: that is it which goeth in front of Assyria. And the fourth river is the Euphrates.
Genesis 2:15 And Jehovah God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it.
Genesis 2:16 And Jehovah God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat:
Genesis 2:17 but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.
Genesis 2:18 And Jehovah God said, It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him a help meet for him.
Genesis 2:19 And out of the ground Jehovah God formed every beast of the field, and every bird of the heavens; and brought them unto the man to see what he would call them: and whatsoever the man called every living creature, that was the name thereof.
Genesis 2:20 And the man gave names to all cattle, and to the birds of the heavens, and to every beast of the field; but for man there was not found a help meet for him.
Genesis 2:21 And Jehovah God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and he slept; and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof:
Genesis 2:22 and the rib, which Jehovah God had taken from the man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man.
Genesis 2:23 And the man said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.
Genesis 2:24 Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.
Genesis 2:25 And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.
Genesis 3:1 Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which Jehovah God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of any tree of the garden?
Genesis 3:2 And the woman said unto the serpent, Of the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat:
Genesis 3:3 but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die.
Genesis 3:4 And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die:
Genesis 3:5 for God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as God, knowing good and evil.
Genesis 3:6 And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat; and she gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat.
Genesis 3:7 And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig-leaves together, and made themselves aprons.
Genesis 3:8 And they heard the voice of Jehovah God walking in the garden in the cool of the day: and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of Jehovah God amongst the trees of the garden.
Genesis 3:9 And Jehovah God called unto the man, and said unto him, Where art thou?
Genesis 3:10 And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.
Genesis 3:11 And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?
Genesis 3:12 And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat.
Genesis 3:13 And Jehovah God said unto the woman, What is this thou hast done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.
Genesis 3:14 And Jehovah God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done this, cursed art thou above all cattle, and above every beast of the field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life:
Genesis 3:15 and I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed: he shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel.
Genesis 3:16 Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy pain and thy conception; in pain thou shalt bring forth children; and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.
Genesis 3:17 And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed is the ground for thy sake; in toil shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life;
Genesis 3:18 thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field;
Genesis 3:19 in the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.
Genesis 3:20 And the man called his wife's name Eve; because she was the mother of all living.
Genesis 3:21 And Jehovah God made for Adam and for his wife coats of skins, and clothed them.
Genesis 3:22 And Jehovah God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil; and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever--
Genesis 3:23 therefore Jehovah God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken.
Genesis 3:24 So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden the Cherubim, and the flame of a sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life.
Genesis 4:1 And the man knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man with [the help of] Jehovah.
Genesis 4:2 And again she bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.
Genesis 4:3 And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto Jehovah.
Genesis 4:4 And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And Jehovah had respect unto Abel and to his offering:
Genesis 4:5 but unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.
Genesis 4:6 And Jehovah said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy countenance fallen?
Genesis 4:7 If thou doest well, shall it not be lifted up? and if thou doest not well, sin coucheth at the door; and unto thee shall be its desire; but do thou rule over it.
Genesis 4:8 And Cain told Abel his brother. And it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him.
Genesis 4:9 And Jehovah said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not: am I my brother's keeper?
Genesis 4:10 And he said, What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground.
Genesis 4:11 And now cursed art thou from the ground, which hath opened its mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand;
Genesis 4:12 when thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee its strength; a fugitive and a wanderer shalt thou be in the earth.
Genesis 4:13 And Cain said unto Jehovah, My punishment is greater than I can bear.
Genesis 4:14 Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the ground; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer in the earth; and it will come to pass, that whosoever findeth me will slay me.
Genesis 4:15 And Jehovah said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And Jehovah appointed a sign for Cain, lest any finding him should smite him.
Genesis 4:16 And Cain went out from the presence of Jehovah, and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden.
Genesis 4:17 And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch.
Genesis 4:18 And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael; and Mehujael begat Methushael; and Methushael begat Lamech.
Genesis 4:19 And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah.
Genesis 4:20 And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents and [have] cattle.
Genesis 4:21 And his brother's name was Jubal: he was the father of all such as handle the harp and pipe.
Genesis 4:22 And Zillah, she also bare Tubal-cain, the forger of every cutting instrument of brass and iron: and the sister of Tubal-cain was Naamah.
Genesis 4:23 And Lamech said unto his wives: Adah and Zillah, hear my voice; Ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: For I have slain a man for wounding me, And a young man for bruising me:
Genesis 4:24 If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, Truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold.
Genesis 4:25 And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called his name Seth: For, [said she], God hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel; for Cain slew him.
Genesis 4:26 And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his name Enosh. Then began men to call upon the name of Jehovah.
Genesis 5:1 This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him;
Genesis 5:2 male and female created he them, and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created.
Genesis 5:3 And Adam lived a hundred and thirty years, and begat [a son] in his own likeness, after his image; and called his name Seth:
Genesis 5:4 and the days of Adam after he begat Seth were eight hundred years: and he begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 5:5 And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died.
Genesis 5:6 And Seth lived a hundred and five years, and begat Enosh:
Genesis 5:7 and Seth lived after he begat Enosh eight hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:8 and all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years: and he died.
Genesis 5:9 And Enosh lived ninety years, and begat Kenan:
Genesis 5:10 and Enosh lived after he begat Kenan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:11 and all the days of Enosh were nine hundred and five years: and he died.
Genesis 5:12 And Kenan lived seventy years, and begat Mahalalel:
Genesis 5:13 and Kenan lived after he begat Mahalalel eight hundred and forty years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:14 and all the days of Kenan were nine hundred and ten years: and he died.
Genesis 5:15 And Mahalalel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared:
Genesis 5:16 And Mahalalel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:17 and all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred ninety and five years: and he died.
Genesis 5:18 And Jared lived a hundred sixty and two years, and begat Enoch:
Genesis 5:19 and Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:20 And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty and two years: and he died.
Genesis 5:21 And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah:
Genesis 5:22 and Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:23 and all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years:
Genesis 5:24 and Enoch walked with God: and he was not; for God took him.
Genesis 5:25 And Methuselah lived a hundred eighty and seven years, and begat Lamech:
Genesis 5:26 and Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty and two years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:27 And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years: and he died.
Genesis 5:28 And Lamech lived a hundred eighty and two years, and begat a son:
Genesis 5:29 and he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort us in our work and in the toil of our hands, [which cometh] because of the ground which Jehovah hath cursed.
Genesis 5:30 And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and five years, and begat sons and daughters:
Genesis 5:31 And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy and seven years: and he died.
Genesis 5:32 And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah begat Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
Genesis 6:1 And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the ground, and daughters were born unto them,
Genesis 6:2 that the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives of all that they chose.
Genesis 6:3 And Jehovah said, My Spirit shall not strive with man for ever, for that he also is flesh: yet shall his days be a hundred and twenty years. [
Genesis 6:4 The Nephilim were in the earth in those days, and also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children to them: the same were the mighty men that were of old, the men of renown.
Genesis 6:5 And Jehovah saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.
Genesis 6:6 And it repented Jehovah that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart.
Genesis 6:7 And Jehovah said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the ground; both man, and beast, and creeping things, and birds of the heavens; for it repenteth me that I have made them.
Genesis 6:8 But Noah found favor in the eyes of Jehovah.
Genesis 6:9 These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, [and] perfect in his generations: Noah walked with God.
Genesis 6:10 And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
Genesis 6:11 And the earth was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.
Genesis 6:12 And God saw the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted their way upon the earth.
Genesis 6:13 And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me; for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I will destroy them with the earth.
Genesis 6:14 Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.
Genesis 6:15 And this is how thou shalt make it: the length of the ark three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits.
Genesis 6:16 A light shalt thou make to the ark, and to a cubit shalt thou finish it upward; and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof; with lower, second, and third stories shalt thou make it.
Genesis 6:17 And I, behold, I do bring the flood of waters upon the earth, to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life, from under heaven; everything that is in the earth shall die.
Genesis 6:18 But I will establish my covenant with thee; and thou shalt come into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee.
Genesis 6:19 And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort shalt thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee; they shall be male and female.
Genesis 6:20 Of the birds after their kind, and of the cattle after their kind, of every creeping thing of the ground after its kind, two of every sort shall come unto thee, to keep them alive.
Genesis 6:21 And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and gather it to thee; and it shall be for food for thee, and for them.
Genesis 6:22 Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so did he.
Genesis 7:1 And Jehovah said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.
Genesis 7:2 Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee seven and seven, the male and his female; and of the beasts that are not clean two, the male and his female:
Genesis 7:3 of the birds also of the heavens, seven and seven, male and female, to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.
Genesis 7:4 For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights; and every living thing that I have made will I destroy from off the face of the ground.
Genesis 7:5 And Noah did according unto all that Jehovah commanded him.
Genesis 7:6 And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth.
Genesis 7:7 And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood.
Genesis 7:8 Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of birds, and of everything that creepeth upon the ground,
Genesis 7:9 there went in two and two unto Noah into the ark, male and female, as God commanded Noah.
Genesis 7:10 And it came to pass after the seven days, that the waters of the flood were upon the earth.
Genesis 7:11 In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on the same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.
Genesis 7:12 And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.
Genesis 7:13 In the selfsame day entered Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, into the ark;
Genesis 7:14 they, and every beast after its kind, and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth after its kind, and every bird after its kind, every bird of every sort.
Genesis 7:15 And they went in unto Noah into the ark, two and two of all flesh wherein is the breath of life.
Genesis 7:16 And they that went in, went in male and female of all flesh, as God commanded him: and Jehovah shut him in.
Genesis 7:17 And the flood was forty days upon the earth; and the waters increased, and bare up the ark, and it was lifted up above the earth.
Genesis 7:18 And the waters prevailed, and increased greatly upon the earth; and the ark went upon the face of the waters.
Genesis 7:19 And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth; and all the high mountains that were under the whole heaven were covered.
Genesis 7:20 Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail; and the mountains were covered.
Genesis 7:21 And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both birds, and cattle, and beasts, and every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth, and every man:
Genesis 7:22 all in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life, of all that was on the dry land, died.
Genesis 7:23 And every living thing was destroyed that was upon the face of the ground, both man, and cattle, and creeping things, and birds of the heavens; and they were destroyed from the earth: and Noah only was left, and they that were with him in the ark.
Genesis 7:24 And the waters prevailed upon the earth a hundred and fifty days.
Genesis 8:1 And God remembered Noah, and all the beasts, and all the cattle that were with him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters assuaged;
Genesis 8:2 the fountains also of the deep and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained;
Genesis 8:3 and the waters returned from off the earth continually: and after the end of a hundred and fifty days the waters decreased.
Genesis 8:4 And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.
Genesis 8:5 And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month: in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops of the mountains seen.
Genesis 8:6 And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made:
Genesis 8:7 and he sent forth a raven, and it went forth to and fro, until the waters were dried up from off the earth.
Genesis 8:8 And he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters were abated from off the face of the ground;
Genesis 8:9 but the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot, and she returned unto him to the ark; for the waters were on the face of the whole earth: and he put forth his hand, and took her, and brought her in unto him into the ark.
Genesis 8:10 And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth the dove out of the ark;
Genesis 8:11 and the dove came in to him at eventide; and, lo, in her mouth an olive-leaf plucked off: so Noah knew that the waters were abated from off the earth.
Genesis 8:12 And he stayed yet other seven days, and sent forth the dove; and she returned not again unto him any more.
Genesis 8:13 And it came to pass in the six hundred and first year, in the first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried up from off the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked, and, behold, the face of the ground was dried.
Genesis 8:14 And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the month, was the earth dry.
Genesis 8:15 And God spake unto Noah, saying,
Genesis 8:16 Go forth from the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons' wives with thee.
Genesis 8:17 Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee of all flesh, both birds, and cattle, and every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed abundantly in the earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.
Genesis 8:18 And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him:
Genesis 8:19 every beast, every creeping thing, and every bird, whatsoever moveth upon the earth, after their families, went forth out of the ark.
Genesis 8:20 And Noah builded an altar unto Jehovah, and took of every clean beast, and of every clean bird, and offered burnt-offerings on the altar.
Genesis 8:21 And Jehovah smelled the sweet savor; and Jehovah said in his heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake, for that the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth; neither will I again smite any more everything living, as I have done.
Genesis 8:22 While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.
Genesis 9:1 And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.
Genesis 9:2 And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every bird of the heavens; with all wherewith the ground teemeth, and all the fishes of the sea, into your hand are they delivered.
Genesis 9:3 Every moving thing that liveth shall be food for you; as the green herb have I given you all.
Genesis 9:4 But flesh with the life thereof, [which is] the blood thereof, shall ye not eat.
Genesis 9:5 And surely your blood, [the blood] of your lives, will I require; at the hand of every beast will I require it: and at the hand of man, even at the hand of every man's brother, will I require the life of man.
Genesis 9:6 Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed: For in the image of God made he man.
Genesis 9:7 And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in the earth, and multiply therein.
Genesis 9:8 And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying,
Genesis 9:9 And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you;
Genesis 9:10 and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the cattle, and every beast of the earth with you; of all that go out of the ark, even every beast of the earth.
Genesis 9:11 And I will establish my covenant with you; neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of the flood; neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.
Genesis 9:12 And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for perpetual generations:
Genesis 9:13 I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth.
Genesis 9:14 And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the bow shall be seen in the cloud,
Genesis 9:15 and I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh.
Genesis 9:16 And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth.
Genesis 9:17 And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.
Genesis 9:18 And the sons of Noah, that went forth from the ark, were Shem, and Ham, and Japheth: and Ham is the father of Canaan.
Genesis 9:19 These three were the sons of Noah: and of these was the whole earth overspread.
Genesis 9:20 And Noah began to be a husbandman, and planted a vineyard:
Genesis 9:21 and he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered within his tent.
Genesis 9:22 And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without.
Genesis 9:23 And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their father's nakedness.
Genesis 9:24 And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his youngest son had done unto him.
Genesis 9:25 And he said, Cursed be Canaan; A servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.
Genesis 9:26 And he said, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Shem; And let Canaan be his servant.
Genesis 9:27 God enlarge Japheth, And let him dwell in the tents of Shem; And let Canaan be his servant.
Genesis 9:28 And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.
Genesis 9:29 And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: And he died.
Genesis 10:1 Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, [namely], of Shem, Ham, and Japheth: and unto them were sons born after the flood.
Genesis 10:2 The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
Genesis 10:3 And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
Genesis 10:4 And the sons of Javan: Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.
Genesis 10:5 Of these were the isles of the nations divided in their lands, every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations.
Genesis 10:6 And the sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan.
Genesis 10:7 And the sons of Cush: Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabteca; and the sons of Raamah: Sheba, and Dedan.
Genesis 10:8 And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the earth.
Genesis 10:9 He was a mighty hunter before Jehovah: wherefore it is said, Like Nimrod a mighty hunter before Jehovah.
Genesis 10:10 And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
Genesis 10:11 Out of that land he went forth into Assyria, and builded Nineveh, and Rehoboth-Ir, and Calah,
Genesis 10:12 and Resen between Nineveh and Calah (the same is the great city).
Genesis 10:13 And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
Genesis 10:14 and Pathrusim, and Casluhim (whence went forth the Philistines), and Caphtorim.
Genesis 10:15 And Canaan begat Sidon his first-born, and Heth,
Genesis 10:16 and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,
Genesis 10:17 and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
Genesis 10:18 and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of the Canaanite spread abroad.
Genesis 10:19 And the border of the Canaanite was from Sidon, as thou goest toward Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest toward Sodom and Gomorrah and Admah and Zeboiim, unto Lasha.
Genesis 10:20 These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, in their nations.
Genesis 10:21 And unto Shem, the father of all the children of Eber, the elder brother of Japheth, to him also were children born.
Genesis 10:22 The sons of Shem: Elam, and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram.
Genesis 10:23 And the sons of Aram: Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.
Genesis 10:24 And Arpachshad begat Shelah; and Shelah begat Eber.
Genesis 10:25 And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg; for in his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.
Genesis 10:26 And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
Genesis 10:27 and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
Genesis 10:28 and Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
Genesis 10:29 and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these were the sons of Joktan.
Genesis 10:30 And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest toward Sephar, the mountain of the east.
Genesis 10:31 These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, after their nations.
Genesis 10:32 These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their generations, in their nations: and of these were the nations divided in the earth after the flood.
Genesis 11:1 And the whole earth was of one language and of one speech.
Genesis 11:2 And it came to pass, as they journeyed east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there.
Genesis 11:3 And they said one to another, Come, let us make brick, and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for mortar.
Genesis 11:4 And they said, Come, let us build us a city, and a tower, whose top [may reach] unto heaven, and let us make us a name; lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.
Genesis 11:5 And Jehovah came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of men builded.
Genesis 11:6 And Jehovah said, Behold, they are one people, and they have all one language; and this is what they begin to do: and now nothing will be withholden from them, which they purpose to do.
Genesis 11:7 Come, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech.
Genesis 11:8 So Jehovah scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth: and they left off building the city.
Genesis 11:9 Therefore was the name of it called Babel; because Jehovah did there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did Jehovah scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth.
Genesis 11:10 These are the generations of Shem. Shem was a hundred years old, and begat Arpachshad two years after the flood:
Genesis 11:11 and Shem lived after he begat Arpachshad five hundred years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:12 And Arpachshad lived five and thirty years, and begat Shelah:
Genesis 11:13 and Arpachshad lived after he begat Shelah four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:14 And Shelah lived thirty years, and begat Eber:
Genesis 11:15 and Shelah lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:16 And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg:
Genesis 11:17 and Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:18 And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu:
Genesis 11:19 and Peleg lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:20 And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug:
Genesis 11:21 and Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:22 And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor:
Genesis 11:23 and Serug lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:24 And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah:
Genesis 11:25 and Nahor lived after he begat Terah a hundred and nineteen years, and begat sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:26 And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran.
Genesis 11:27 Now these are the generations of Terah. Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot.
Genesis 11:28 And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees.
Genesis 11:29 And Abram and Nahor took them wives: the name of Abram's wife was Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.
Genesis 11:30 And Sarai was barren; she had no child.
Genesis 11:31 And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran, his son's son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, his son Abram's wife; and they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there.
Genesis 11:32 And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah died in Haran.
Genesis 12:1 Now Jehovah said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto the land that I will show thee:
Genesis 12:2 and I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make they name great; and be thou a blessing:
Genesis 12:3 and I will bless them that bless thee, and him that curseth thee will I curse: and in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
Genesis 12:4 So Abram went, as Jehovah had spoken unto him; and Lot went with him: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran.
Genesis 12:5 And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan; and into the land of Canaan they came.
Genesis 12:6 And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Shechem, unto the oak of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land.
Genesis 12:7 And Jehovah appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land: and there builded he an altar unto Jehovah, who appeared unto him.
Genesis 12:8 And he removed from thence unto the mountain on the east of Beth-el, and pitched his tent, having Beth-el on the west, and Ai on the east: and there he builded an altar unto Jehovah, and called upon the name of Jehovah.
Genesis 12:9 And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the South.
Genesis 12:10 And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was sore in the land.
Genesis 12:11 And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt, that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou art a fair woman to look upon:
Genesis 12:12 and it will come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they will say, This is his wife: and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.
Genesis 12:13 Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister; that it may be well with me for thy sake, and that my soul may live because of thee.
Genesis 12:14 And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair.
Genesis 12:15 And the princes of Pharaoh saw her, and praised her to Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house.
Genesis 12:16 And he dealt well with Abram for her sake: and he had sheep, and oxen, and he-asses, and men-servants, and maid-servants, and she-asses, and camels.
Genesis 12:17 And Jehovah plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife.
Genesis 12:18 And Pharaoh called Abram, and said, What is this that thou hast done unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife?
Genesis 12:19 why saidst thou, She is my sister, so that I took her to be my wife? now therefore behold thy wife, take her, and go thy way.
Genesis 12:20 And Pharaoh gave men charge concerning him: and they brought him on the way, and his wife, and all that he had.
Genesis 13:1 And Abram went up out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the South.
Genesis 13:2 And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold.
Genesis 13:3 And he went on his journeys from the South even to Beth-el, unto the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Beth-el and Ai,
Genesis 13:4 unto the place of the altar, which he had made there at the first: and there Abram called on the name of Jehovah.
Genesis 13:5 And Lot also, who went with Abram, had flocks, and herds, and tents.
Genesis 13:6 And the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell together: for their substance was great, so that they could not dwell together.
Genesis 13:7 And there was a strife between the herdsmen of Abram's cattle and the herdsmen of Lot's cattle: and the Canaanite and the Perizzite dwelt then in the land.
Genesis 13:8 And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, and between my herdsmen and thy herdsmen; for we are brethren.
Genesis 13:9 Is not the whole land before thee? separate thyself, I pray thee, from me: if [thou wilt take] the left hand, then I will go to the right; or if [thou take] the right hand, then I will go to the left.
Genesis 13:10 And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the Plain of the Jordan, that it was well watered every where, before Jehovah destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, like the garden of Jehovah, like the land of Egypt, as thou goest unto Zoar.
Genesis 13:11 So Lot chose him all the Plain of the Jordan; and Lot journeyed east: and they separated themselves the one from the other.
Genesis 13:12 Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelt in the cities of the Plain, and moved his tent as far as Sodom.
Genesis 13:13 Now the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners against Jehovah exceedingly.
Genesis 13:14 And Jehovah said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated from him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art, northward and southward and eastward and westward:
Genesis 13:15 for all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for ever.
Genesis 13:16 And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth: so that if a man can number the dust of the earth, then may thy seed also be numbered.
Genesis 13:17 Arise, walk through the land in the length of it and in the breadth of it; for unto thee will I give it.
Genesis 13:18 And Abram moved his tent, and came and dwelt by the oaks of Mamre, which are in Hebron, and built there an altar unto Jehovah.
Genesis 14:1 And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goiim,
Genesis 14:2 that they made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (the same is Zoar).
Genesis 14:3 All these joined together in the vale of Siddim (the same is the Salt Sea).
Genesis 14:4 Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year they rebelled.
Genesis 14:5 And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings that were with him, and smote the Rephaim in Ashteroth-karnaim, and the Zuzim in Ham, and the Emim in Shaveh-kiriathaim,
Genesis 14:6 and the Horites in their mount Seir, unto Elparan, which is by the wilderness.
Genesis 14:7 And they returned, and came to En-mishpat (the same is Kadesh), and smote all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites, that dwelt in Hazazon-tamar.
Genesis 14:8 And there went out the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (the same is Zoar); and they set the battle in array against them in the vale of Siddim;
Genesis 14:9 against Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goiim, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar; four kings against the five.
Genesis 14:10 Now the vale of Siddim was full of slime pits; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and they fell there, and they that remained fled to the mountain.
Genesis 14:11 And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their victuals, and went their way.
Genesis 14:12 And they took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom, and his goods, and departed.
Genesis 14:13 And there came one that had escaped, and told Abram the Hebrew: now he dwelt by the oaks of Mamre, the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner; and these were confederate with Abram. [
Genesis 14:14 And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he led forth his trained men, born in his house, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued as far as Dan.
Genesis 14:15 And he divided himself against them by night, he and his servants, and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which is on the left hand of Damascus.
Genesis 14:16 And he brought back all the goods, and also brought back his brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people.
Genesis 14:17 And the king of Sodom went out to meet him, after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer and the kings that were with him, at the vale of Shaveh (the same is the King's Vale).
Genesis 14:18 And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine: and he was priest of God Most High.
Genesis 14:19 And he blessed him, and said, Blessed be Abram of God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth:
Genesis 14:20 and blessed be God Most High, who hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand. And he gave him a tenth of all.
Genesis 14:21 And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons, and take the goods to thyself.
Genesis 14:22 And Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lifted up my hand unto Jehovah, God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth,
Genesis 14:23 that I will not take a thread nor a shoe-latchet nor aught that is thine, lest thou shouldest say, I have made Abram rich:
Genesis 14:24 save only that which the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men that went with me, Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre; let them take their portion.
Genesis 15:1 After these things the word of Jehovah came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram: I am thy shield, [and] thy exceeding great reward.
Genesis 15:2 And Abram said, O Lord Jehovah, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless, and he that shall be possessor of my house is Eliezer of Damascus?
Genesis 15:3 And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed: and, lo, one born in my house is mine heir.
Genesis 15:4 And, behold, the word of Jehovah came unto him, saying, This man shall not be thine heir; but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir.
Genesis 15:5 And he brought him forth abroad, and said, Look now toward heaven, and number the stars, if thou be able to number them: and he said unto him, So shall thy seed be.
Genesis 15:6 And he believed in Jehovah; and he reckoned it to him for righteousness.
Genesis 15:7 And he said unto him, I am Jehovah that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.
Genesis 15:8 And he said, O Lord Jehovah, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it?
Genesis 15:9 And he said unto him, Take me a heifer three years old, and a she-goat three years old, and a ram three years old, and a turtle-dove, and a young pigeon.
Genesis 15:10 And he took him all these, and divided them in the midst, and laid each half over against the other: but the birds divided he not.
Genesis 15:11 And the birds of prey came down upon the carcasses, and Abram drove them away.
Genesis 15:12 And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and, lo, a horror of great darkness fell upon him.
Genesis 15:13 And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be sojourners in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them; and they shall afflict them four hundred years;
Genesis 15:14 and also that nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall they come out with great substance.
Genesis 15:15 But thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buried in a good old age.
Genesis 15:16 And in the fourth generation they shall come hither again: for the iniquity of the Amorite is not yet full.
Genesis 15:17 And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it was dark, behold, a smoking furnace, and a flaming torch that passed between these pieces.
Genesis 15:18 In that day Jehovah made a covenant with Abram, saying, Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates:
Genesis 15:19 the Kenite, and the Kenizzite, and the Kadmonite,
Genesis 15:20 and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Rephaim,
Genesis 15:21 and the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Girgashite, and the Jebusite.
Genesis 16:1 Now Sarai, Abram's wife, bare him no children: and she had a handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.
Genesis 16:2 And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold now, Jehovah hath restrained me from bearing; go in, I pray thee, unto my handmaid; it may be that I shall obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai.
Genesis 16:3 And Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar the Egyptian, her handmaid, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to Abram her husband to be his wife.
Genesis 16:4 And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived: and when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.
Genesis 16:5 And Sarai said unto Abram, My wrong be upon thee: I gave my handmaid into thy bosom; and when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes: Jehovah judge between me and thee.
Genesis 16:6 But Abram said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thy hand; do to her that which is good in thine eyes. And Sarai dealt hardly with her, and she fled from her face.
Genesis 16:7 And the angel of Jehovah found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.
Genesis 16:8 And he said, Hagar, Sarai's handmaid, whence camest thou? and whither goest thou? And she said, I am fleeing from the face of my mistress Sarai.
Genesis 16:9 And the angel of Jehovah said unto her, Return to thy mistress, and submit thyself under her hands.
Genesis 16:10 And the angel of Jehovah said unto her, I will greatly multiply thy seed, that it shall not be numbered for multitude.
Genesis 16:11 And the angel of Jehovah said unto her, Behold, thou art with child, and shalt bear a son; and thou shalt call his name Ishmael, because Jehovah hath heard thy affliction.
Genesis 16:12 And he shall be [as] a wild ass among men; his hand [shall be] against every man, and every man's hand against him; and he shall dwell over against all his brethren.
Genesis 16:13 And she called the name of Jehovah that spake unto her, Thou art a God that seeth: for she said, Have I even here looked after him that seeth me?
Genesis 16:14 Wherefore the well was called Beer-lahai-roi; behold, it is between Kadesh and Bered.
Genesis 16:15 And Hagar bare Abram a son: and Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bare, Ishmael.
Genesis 16:16 And Abram was fourscore and six years old, when Hagar bare Ishmael to Abram.
Genesis 17:1 And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, Jehovah appeared to Abram, and said unto him, I am God Almighty; walk before me, and be thou perfect.
Genesis 17:2 And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly.
Genesis 17:3 And Abram fell on his face: and God talked with him, saying,
Genesis 17:4 As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be the father of a multitude of nations.
Genesis 17:5 Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name shall be Abraham; for the father of a multitude of nations have I made thee.
Genesis 17:6 And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee.
Genesis 17:7 And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee.
Genesis 17:8 And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land of thy sojournings, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession; and I will be their God.
Genesis 17:9 And God said unto Abraham, And as for thee, thou shalt keep my covenant, thou, and thy seed after thee throughout their generations.
Genesis 17:10 This is my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and you and thy seed after thee: every male among you shall be circumcised.
Genesis 17:11 And ye shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin; and it shall be a token of a covenant betwixt me and you.
Genesis 17:12 And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you, every male throughout your generations, he that is born in the house, or bought with money of any foreigner that is not of thy seed.
Genesis 17:13 He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy money, must needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant.
Genesis 17:14 And the uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he hath broken my covenant.
Genesis 17:15 And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be.
Genesis 17:16 And I will bless her, and moreover I will give thee a son of her: yea, I will bless her, and she shall be [a mother of] nations; kings of peoples shall be of her.
Genesis 17:17 Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is a hundred years old? and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear?
Genesis 17:18 And Abraham said unto God, Oh that Ishmael might live before thee!
Genesis 17:19 And God said, Nay, but Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son; and thou shalt call his name Isaac: and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant for his seed after him. [
Genesis 17:20 And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly; twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation.
Genesis 17:21 But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear unto thee at this set time in the next year.
Genesis 17:22 And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham.
Genesis 17:23 And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his house, and all that were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house, and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the selfsame day, as God had said unto him.
Genesis 17:24 And Abraham was ninety years old and nine, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
Genesis 17:25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
Genesis 17:26 In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his son.
Genesis 17:27 And all the men of his house, those born in the house, and those bought with money of a foreigner, were circumcised with him.
Genesis 18:1 And Jehovah appeared unto him by the oaks of Mamre, as he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day;
Genesis 18:2 and he lifted up his eyes and looked, and, lo, three men stood over against him: and when he saw them, he ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself to the earth,
Genesis 18:3 and said, My lord, if now I have found favor in thy sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant:
Genesis 18:4 let now a little water be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree:
Genesis 18:5 and I will fetch a morsel of bread, and strengthen ye your heart; after that ye shall pass on: forasmuch as ye are come to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said.
Genesis 18:6 And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes.
Genesis 18:7 And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetched a calf tender and good, and gave it unto the servant; and he hasted to dress it.
Genesis 18:8 And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed, and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree, and they did eat.
Genesis 18:9 And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent.
Genesis 18:10 And he said, I will certainly return unto thee when the season cometh round; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah heard in the tent door, which was behind him.
Genesis 18:11 Now Abraham and Sarah were old, [and] well stricken in age; it had ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.
Genesis 18:12 And Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?
Genesis 18:13 And Jehovah said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a surety bear a child, who am old?
Genesis 18:14 Is anything too hard for Jehovah? At the set time I will return unto thee, when the season cometh round, and Sarah shall have a son.
Genesis 18:15 Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid. And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh.
Genesis 18:16 And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.
Genesis 18:17 And Jehovah said, Shall I hide from Abraham that which I do;
Genesis 18:18 seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?
Genesis 18:19 For I have known him, to the end that he may command his children and his household after him, that they may keep the way of Jehovah, to do righteousness and justice; to the end that Jehovah may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him.
Genesis 18:20 And Jehovah said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous;
Genesis 18:21 I will go down now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which is come unto me; and if not, I will know.
Genesis 18:22 And the men turned from thence, and went toward Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before Jehovah.
Genesis 18:23 And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou consume the righteous with the wicked?
Genesis 18:24 Peradventure there are fifty righteous within the city: wilt thou consume and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein?
Genesis 18:25 That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked, that so the righteous should be as the wicked; that be far from thee: shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?
Genesis 18:26 And Jehovah said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sake.
Genesis 18:27 And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord, who am but dust and ashes:
Genesis 18:28 peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous: wilt thou destroy all the city for lack of five? And he said, I will not destroy it, if I find there forty and five.
Genesis 18:29 And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for the forty's sake.
Genesis 18:30 And he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak: peradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said, I will not do it, if I find thirty there.
Genesis 18:31 And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord: peradventure there shall be twenty found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for the twenty's sake.
Genesis 18:32 And he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak yet but this once: peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for the ten's sake.
Genesis 18:33 And Jehovah went his way, as soon as he had left off communing with Abraham: and Abraham returned unto his place.
Genesis 19:1 And the two angels came to Sodom at even; and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom: and Lot saw them, and rose up to meet them; and he bowed himself with his face to the earth;
Genesis 19:2 and he said, Behold now, my lords, turn aside, I pray you, into your servant's house, and tarry all night, and wash your feet, and ye shall rise up early, and go on your way. And they said, Nay; but we will abide in the street all night.
Genesis 19:3 And he urged them greatly; and they turned in unto him, and entered into his house; and he made them a feast, and did bake unleavened bread, and they did eat.
Genesis 19:4 But before they lay down, the men of the city, [even] the men of Sodom, compassed the house round, both young and old, all the people from every quarter;
Genesis 19:5 and they called unto Lot, and said unto him, Where are the men that came in to thee this night? bring them out unto us, that we may know them.
Genesis 19:6 And Lot went out unto them to the door, and shut the door after him.
Genesis 19:7 And he said, I pray you, my brethren, do not so wickedly.
Genesis 19:8 Behold now, I have two daughters that have not known man; let me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye to them as is good in your eyes: only unto these men do nothing, forasmuch as they are come under the shadow of my roof.
Genesis 19:9 And they said, Stand back. And they said, This one fellow came in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge: now will we deal worse with thee, than with them. And they pressed sore upon the man, even Lot, and drew near to break the door.
Genesis 19:10 But the men put forth their hand, and brought Lot into the house to them, and shut to the door.
Genesis 19:11 And they smote the men that were at the door of the house with blindness, both small and great, so that they wearied themselves to find the door.
Genesis 19:12 And the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides? son-in-law, and thy sons, and thy daughters, and whomsoever thou hast in the city, bring them out of the place:
Genesis 19:13 for we will destroy this place, because the cry of them is waxed great before Jehovah; and Jehovah hath sent us to destroy it.
Genesis 19:14 And Lot went out, and spake unto his sons-in-law, who married his daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place; for Jehovah will destroy the city. But he seemed unto his sons-in-law as one that mocked.
Genesis 19:15 And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot, saying, Arise, take thy wife, and thy two daughters that are here, lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city.
Genesis 19:16 But he lingered; and the men laid hold upon his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters, Jehovah being merciful unto him: and they brought him forth, and set him without the city.
Genesis 19:17 And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad, that he said, Escape for thy life; look not behind thee, neither stay thou in all the Plain; escape to the mountain, lest thou be consumed.
Genesis 19:18 And Lot said unto them, Oh, not so, my lord:
Genesis 19:19 behold now, thy servant hath found favor in thy sight, and thou hast magnified thy lovingkindness, which thou hast showed unto me in saving my life; and I cannot escape to the mountain, lest evil overtake me, and I die:
Genesis 19:20 behold now, this city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one. Oh let me escape thither (is it not a little one?), and my soul shall live.
Genesis 19:21 And he said unto him, See, I have accepted thee concerning this thing also, that I will not overthrow the city of which thou hast spoken.
Genesis 19:22 Haste thee, escape thither; for I cannot do anything till thou be come thither. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar.
Genesis 19:23 The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot came unto Zoar.
Genesis 19:24 Then Jehovah rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from Jehovah out of heaven;
Genesis 19:25 and he overthrew those cities, and all the Plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground.
Genesis 19:26 But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt.
Genesis 19:27 And Abraham gat up early in the morning to the place where he had stood before Jehovah:
Genesis 19:28 and he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the Plain, and beheld, and, lo, the smoke of the land went up as the smoke of a furnace.
Genesis 19:29 And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of the Plain, that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in which Lot dwelt.
Genesis 19:30 And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the mountain, and his two daughters with him; for he feared to dwell in Zoar: and he dwelt in a cave, he and his two daughters.
Genesis 19:31 And the first-born said unto the younger, Our father is old, and there is not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the manner of all the earth:
Genesis 19:32 come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.
Genesis 19:33 And they made their father drink wine that night: and the first-born went in, and lay with her father; and he knew not when she lay down, nor when she arose.
Genesis 19:34 And it came to pass on the morrow, that the first-born said unto the younger, Behold, I lay yesternight with my father: let us make him drink wine this night also; and go thou in, and lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.
Genesis 19:35 And they made their father drink wine that night also: and the younger arose, and lay with him; and he knew not when she lay down, nor when she arose.
Genesis 19:36 Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father.
Genesis 19:37 And the first-born bare a son, and called his name Moab: the same is the father of the Moabites unto this day.
Genesis 19:38 And the younger, she also bare a son, and called his name Ben-ammi: the same is the father of the children of Ammon unto this day.
Genesis 20:1 And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the land of the South, and dwelt between Kadesh and Shur; and he sojourned in Gerar.
Genesis 20:2 And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister: and Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.
Genesis 20:3 But God came to Abimelech in a dream of the night, and said to him, Behold, thou art but a dead man, because of the woman whom thou hast taken; for she is a man's wife.
Genesis 20:4 Now Abimelech had not come near her: and he said, Lord, wilt thou slay even a righteous nation?
Genesis 20:5 Said he not himself unto me, She is my sister? and she, even she herself said, He is my brother: in the integrity of my heart and the innocency of my hands have I done this.
Genesis 20:6 And God said unto him in the dream, Yea, I know that in the integrity of thy heart thou has done this, and I also withheld thee from sinning against me: therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.
Genesis 20:7 Now therefore restore the man's wife; for he is a prophet, and he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live: and if thou restore her not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that are thine.
Genesis 20:8 And Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ears: and the men were sore afraid.
Genesis 20:9 Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast thou done unto us? and wherein have I sinned against thee, that thou hast brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? thou hast done deeds unto me that ought not to be done.
Genesis 20:10 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou hast done this thing?
Genesis 20:11 And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will slay me for my wife's sake.
Genesis 20:12 And moreover she is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife:
Genesis 20:13 and it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my father's house, that I said unto her, This is thy kindness which thou shalt show unto me: at every place whither we shall come, say of me, He is my brother.
Genesis 20:14 And Abimelech took sheep and oxen, and men-servants and women-servants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his wife.
Genesis 20:15 And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee: dwell where it pleaseth thee.
Genesis 20:16 And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother a thousand pieces of silver: behold, it is for thee a covering of the eyes to all that are with thee; and in respect of all thou art righted.
Genesis 20:17 And Abraham prayed unto God: and God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his maid-servants; and they bare children.
Genesis 20:18 For Jehovah had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah, Abraham's wife.
Genesis 21:1 And Jehovah visited Sarah as he had said, and Jehovah did unto Sarah as he had spoken.
Genesis 21:2 And Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at the set time of which God had spoken to him.
Genesis 21:3 And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him, whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac.
Genesis 21:4 And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him.
Genesis 21:5 And Abraham was a hundred years old, when his son Isaac was born unto him.
Genesis 21:6 And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh; every one that heareth will laugh with me.
Genesis 21:7 And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham, that Sarah should give children suck? for I have borne him a son in his old age.
Genesis 21:8 And the child grew, and was weaned: and Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned.
Genesis 21:9 And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had borne unto Abraham, mocking.
Genesis 21:10 Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this handmaid and her son: for the son of this handmaid shall not be heir with my son, even with Isaac.
Genesis 21:11 And the thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight on account of his son.
Genesis 21:12 And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight because of the lad, and because of thy handmaid; in all that Sarah saith unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy seed be called.
Genesis 21:13 And also of the son of the handmaid will I make a nation, because he is thy seed.
Genesis 21:14 And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread and a bottle of water, and gave it unto Hagar, putting it on her shoulder, and [gave her] the child, and sent her away: and she departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Beer-sheba.
Genesis 21:15 And the water in the bottle was spent, and she cast the child under one of the shrubs.
Genesis 21:16 And she went, and sat her down over against him a good way off, as it were a bowshot: for she said, Let me not look upon the death of the child. And she sat over against him, and lifted up her voice, and wept.
Genesis 21:17 And God heard the voice of the lad; and the angel of God called to Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her, What aileth thee, Hagar? fear not; for God hath heard the voice of the lad where he is.
Genesis 21:18 Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thy hand; for I will make him a great nation.
Genesis 21:19 And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink.
Genesis 21:20 And God was with the lad, and he grew; and he dwelt in the wilderness, and became, as he grew up, an archer.
Genesis 21:21 And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran: and his mother took him a wife out of the land of Egypt.
Genesis 21:22 And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and Phicol the captain of his host spake unto Abraham, saying, God is with thee in all that thou doest:
Genesis 21:23 now therefore swear unto me here by God that thou wilt not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my son's son: but according to the kindness that I have done unto thee, thou shalt do unto me, and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned.
Genesis 21:24 And Abraham said, I will swear.
Genesis 21:25 And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of the well of water, which Abimelech's servants had violently taken away.
Genesis 21:26 And Abimelech said, I know not who hath done this thing: neither didst thou tell me, neither yet heard I of it, but to-day.
Genesis 21:27 And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them unto Abimelech; and they two made a covenant.
Genesis 21:28 And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.
Genesis 21:29 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What mean these seven ewe lambs which thou hast set by themselves?
Genesis 21:30 And he said, These seven ewe lambs shalt thou take of my hand, that it may be a witness unto me, that I have digged this well.
Genesis 21:31 Wherefore he called that place Beer-sheba; because there they sware both of them.
Genesis 21:32 So they made a covenant at Beer-sheba: and Abimelech rose up, and Phicol the captain of his host, and they returned into the land of the Philistines.
Genesis 21:33 And [Abraham] planted a tamarisk tree in Beer-sheba, and called there on the name of Jehovah, the Everlasting God.
Genesis 21:34 And Abraham sojourned in the land of the Philistines many days.
Genesis 22:1 And it came to pass after these things, that God did prove Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham; and he said, Here am I.
Genesis 22:2 And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son, whom thou lovest, even Isaac, and get thee into the land of Moriah; and offer him there for a burnt-offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.
Genesis 22:3 And Abraham rose early in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son; and he clave the wood for the burnt-offering, and rose up, and went unto the place of which God had told him.
Genesis 22:4 On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place afar off.
Genesis 22:5 And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder; and we will worship, and come again to you.
Genesis 22:6 And Abraham took the wood of the burnt-offering, and laid it upon Isaac his son; and he took in his hand the fire and the knife; and they went both of them together.
Genesis 22:7 And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father: and he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold, the fire and the wood: but where is the lamb for a burnt-offering?
Genesis 22:8 And Abraham said, God will provide himself the lamb for a burnt-offering, my son: so they went both of them together.
Genesis 22:9 And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abraham built the altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar, upon the wood.
Genesis 22:10 And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay his son.
Genesis 22:11 And the angel of Jehovah called unto him out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here I am.
Genesis 22:12 And he said, Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him; for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me.
Genesis 22:13 And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, behind [him] a ram caught in the thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt-offering in the stead of his son.
Genesis 22:14 And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah-jireh: as it is said to this day, In the mount of Jehovah it shall be provided.
Genesis 22:15 And the angel of Jehovah called unto Abraham a second time out of heaven,
Genesis 22:16 and said, By myself have I sworn, saith Jehovah, because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son,
Genesis 22:17 that in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heavens, and as the sand which is upon the seashore; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies;
Genesis 22:18 and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; because thou hast obeyed my voice.
Genesis 22:19 So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beer-sheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beer-sheba.
Genesis 22:20 And it came to pass after these things, that it was told Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she also hath borne children unto thy brother Nahor:
Genesis 22:21 Uz his first-born, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram,
Genesis 22:22 and Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.
Genesis 22:23 And Bethuel begat Rebekah: these eight did Milcah bear to Nahor, Abraham's brother.
Genesis 22:24 And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she also bare Tebah, and Gaham, and Tahash, and Maacah.
Genesis 23:1 And the life of Sarah was a hundred and seven and twenty years: these were the years of the life of Sarah.
Genesis 23:2 And Sarah died in Kiriath-arba (the same is Hebron), in the land of Canaan: and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her.
Genesis 23:3 And Abraham rose up from before his dead, and spake unto the children of Heth, saying,
Genesis 23:4 I am a stranger and a sojourner with you: give me a possession of a burying-place with you, that I may bury my dead out of my sight.
Genesis 23:5 And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying unto him,
Genesis 23:6 Hear us, my lord; thou art a prince of God among us: in the choice of our sepulchres bury thy dead; none of us shall withhold from thee his sepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead.
Genesis 23:7 And Abraham rose up, and bowed himself to the people of the land, even to the children of Heth.
Genesis 23:8 And he communed with them, saying, If it be your mind that I should bury my dead out of my sight, hear me, and entreat for me to Ephron the son of Zohar,
Genesis 23:9 that he may give me the cave of Machpelah, which he hath, which is in the end of his field; for the full price let him give it to me in the midst of you for a possession of a burying-place.
Genesis 23:10 Now Ephron was sitting in the midst of the children of Heth: and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of the children of Heth, even of all that went in at the gate of his city, saying,
Genesis 23:11 Nay, my lord, hear me: the field give I thee, and the cave that is therein, I give it thee; in the presence of the children of my people give I it thee: bury thy dead.
Genesis 23:12 And Abraham bowed himself down before the people of the land.
Genesis 23:13 And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the people of the land, saying, But if thou wilt, I pray thee, hear me: I will give the price of the field; take it of me, and I will bury my dead there.
Genesis 23:14 And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him,
Genesis 23:15 My lord, hearken unto me: a piece of land worth four hundred shekels of silver, what is that betwixt me and thee? bury therefore thy dead.
Genesis 23:16 And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron; and Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver which he had named in the audience of the children of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, current [money] with the merchant.
Genesis 23:17 So the field of Ephron, which was in Machpelah, which was before Mamre, the field, and the cave which was therein, and all the trees that were in the field, that were in all the border thereof round about, were made sure
Genesis 23:18 unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the children of Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city.
Genesis 23:19 And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre (the same is Hebron), in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 23:20 And the field, and the cave that is therein, were made sure unto Abraham for a possession of a burying-place by the children of Heth.
Genesis 24:1 And Abraham was old, [and] well stricken in age: and Jehovah had blessed Abraham in all things.
Genesis 24:2 And Abraham said unto his servant, the elder of his house, that ruled over all that he had, Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh:
Genesis 24:3 and I will make thee swear by Jehovah, the God of heaven and the God of the earth, that thou wilt not take a wife for my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell:
Genesis 24:4 but thou shalt go unto my country, and to my kindred, and take a wife for my son Isaac.
Genesis 24:5 And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not be willing to follow me unto this land: must I needs bring thy son again unto the land from whence thou camest?
Genesis 24:6 And Abraham said unto him, Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither again.
Genesis 24:7 Jehovah, the God of heaven, who took me from my father's house, and from the land of my nativity, and who spake unto me, and who sware unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land; he will send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife for my son from thence.
Genesis 24:8 And if the woman be not willing to follow thee, then thou shalt be clear from this my oath; only thou shalt not bring my son thither again.
Genesis 24:9 And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and sware to him concerning this matter.
Genesis 24:10 And the servant took ten camels, of the camels of his master, and departed, having all goodly things of his master's in his hand: and he arose, and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of Nahor.
Genesis 24:11 And he made the camels to kneel down without the city by the well of water at the time of evening, the time that women go out to draw water.
Genesis 24:12 And he said, O Jehovah, the God of my master Abraham, send me, I pray thee, good speed this day, and show kindness unto my master Abraham.
Genesis 24:13 Behold, I am standing by the fountain of water; and the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water:
Genesis 24:14 and let it come to pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink; and she shall say, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: let the same be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac; and thereby shall I know that thou hast showed kindness unto my master.
Genesis 24:15 And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold, Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel the son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulder.
Genesis 24:16 And the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin, neither had any man known her: and she went down to the fountain, and filled her pitcher, and came up.
Genesis 24:17 And the servant ran to meet her, and said, Give me to drink, I pray thee, a little water from thy pitcher.
Genesis 24:18 And she said, Drink, my lord: and she hasted, and let down her pitcher upon her hand, and gave him drink.
Genesis 24:19 And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I will draw for thy camels also, until they have done drinking.
Genesis 24:20 And she hasted, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran again unto the well to draw, and drew for all his camels.
Genesis 24:21 And the man looked stedfastly on her, holding his peace, to know whether Jehovah had made his journey prosperous or not.
Genesis 24:22 And it came to pass, as the camels had done drinking, that the man took a golden ring of half a shekel weight, and two bracelets for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold,
Genesis 24:23 and said, Whose daughter art thou? tell me, I pray thee. Is there room in thy father's house for us to lodge in?
Genesis 24:24 And she said unto him, I am the daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, whom she bare unto Nahor.
Genesis 24:25 She said moreover unto him, We have both straw and provender enough, and room to lodge in.
Genesis 24:26 And the man bowed his head, and worshipped Jehovah.
Genesis 24:27 And he said, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of my master Abraham, who hath not forsaken his lovingkindness and his truth toward my master: as for me, Jehovah hath led me in the way to the house of my master's brethren.
Genesis 24:28 And the damsel ran, and told her mother's house according to these words.
Genesis 24:29 And Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban: and Laban ran out unto the man, unto the fountain.
Genesis 24:30 And it came to pass, when he saw the ring, and the bracelets upon his sister's hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister, saying, Thus spake the man unto me; that he came unto the man; and, behold, he was standing by the camels at the fountain.
Genesis 24:31 And he said, Come in, thou blessed of Jehovah; wherefore standest thou without? for I have prepared the house, and room for the camels.
Genesis 24:32 And the man came into the house, and he ungirded the camels; and he gave straw and provender for the camels, and water to wash his feet and the feet of the men that were with him.
Genesis 24:33 And there was set food before him to eat: but he said, I will not eat, until I have told mine errand. And he said, Speak on.
Genesis 24:34 And he said, I am Abraham's servant.
Genesis 24:35 And Jehovah hath blessed my master greatly; and he is become great: and he hath given him flocks and herds, and silver and gold, and men-servants and maid-servants, and camels and asses.
Genesis 24:36 And Sarah my master's wife bare a son to my master when she was old: and unto him hath he given all that he hath.
Genesis 24:37 And my master made me swear, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife for my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell:
Genesis 24:38 but thou shalt go unto my father's house, and to my kindred, and take a wife for my son.
Genesis 24:39 And I said unto my master, Peradventure the woman will not follow me.
Genesis 24:40 And he said unto me, Jehovah, before whom I walk, will send his angel with thee, and prosper thy way; and thou shalt take a wife for my son of my kindred, and of my father's house:
Genesis 24:41 then shalt thou be clear from my oath, when thou comest to my kindred; and if they give her not to thee, thou shalt be clear from my oath.
Genesis 24:42 And I came this day unto the fountain, and said, O Jehovah, the God of my master Abraham, if now thou do prosper my way which I go:
Genesis 24:43 behold, I am standing by the fountain of water; and let it come to pass, that the maiden that cometh forth to draw, to whom I shall say, Give me, I pray thee, a little water from thy pitcher to drink;
Genesis 24:44 and she shall say to me, Both drink thou, and I will also draw for thy camels: let the same be the woman whom Jehovah hath appointed for my master's son.
Genesis 24:45 And before I had done speaking in my heart, behold, Rebekah came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder; and she went down unto the fountain, and drew: and I said unto her, Let me drink, I pray thee.
Genesis 24:46 And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from her shoulder, and said, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: so I drank, and she made the camels drink also.
Genesis 24:47 And I asked her, and said, Whose daughter art thou? And she said, The daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bare unto him: and I put the ring upon her nose, and the bracelets upon her hands.
Genesis 24:48 And I bowed my head, and worshipped Jehovah, and blessed Jehovah, the God of my master Abraham, who had led me in the right way to take my master's brother's daughter for his son.
Genesis 24:49 And now if ye will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell me: and if not, tell me; that I may turn to the right hand, or to the left.
Genesis 24:50 Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing proceedeth from Jehovah: we cannot speak unto thee bad or good.
Genesis 24:51 Behold, Rebekah is before thee, take her, and go, and let her be thy master's son's wife, as Jehovah hath spoken.
Genesis 24:52 And it came to pass, that, when Abraham's servant heard their words, he bowed himself down to the earth unto Jehovah.
Genesis 24:53 And the servant brought forth jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah: he gave also to her brother and to her mother precious things.
Genesis 24:54 And they did eat and drink, he and the men that were with him, and tarried all night; and they rose up in the morning, and he said, Send me away unto my master.
Genesis 24:55 And her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel abide with us [a few] days, at the least ten; after that she shall go.
Genesis 24:56 And he said unto them, Hinder me not, seeing Jehovah hath prospered my way; send me away that I may go to my master.
Genesis 24:57 And they said, We will call the damsel, and inquire at her mouth.
Genesis 24:58 And they called Rebekah, and said unto her, Wilt thou go with this man? And she said, I will go.
Genesis 24:59 And they sent away Rebekah their sister, and her nurse, and Abraham's servant, and his men.
Genesis 24:60 And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Our sister, be thou [the mother] of thousands of ten thousands, and let thy seed possess the gate of those that hate them.
Genesis 24:61 And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode upon the camels, and followed the man: and the servant took Rebekah, and went his way.
Genesis 24:62 And Isaac came from the way of Beer-lahai-roi; for he dwelt in the land of the South.
Genesis 24:63 And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide: and he lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, there were camels coming.
Genesis 24:64 And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she alighted from the camel.
Genesis 24:65 And she said unto the servant, What man is this that walketh in the field to meet us? And the servant said, It is my master: and she took her veil, and covered herself.
Genesis 24:66 And the servant told Isaac all the things that he had done.
Genesis 24:67 And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her: and Isaac was comforted after his mother's death.
Genesis 25:1 And Abraham took another wife, and her name was Keturah.
Genesis 25:2 And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.
Genesis 25:3 And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.
Genesis 25:4 And the sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah.
Genesis 25:5 And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac.
Genesis 25:6 But unto the sons of the concubines, that Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts; and he sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived, eastward, unto the east country.
Genesis 25:7 And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he lived, a hundred threescore and fifteen years.
Genesis 25:8 And Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full [of years], and was gathered to his people.
Genesis 25:9 And Isaac and Ishmael his sons buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is before Mamre;
Genesis 25:10 the field which Abraham purchased of the children of Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife.
Genesis 25:11 And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed Isaac his son: and Isaac dwelt by Beer-lahai-roi.
Genesis 25:12 Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bare unto Abraham:
Genesis 25:13 and these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: the first-born of Ishmael, Nebaioth; and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
Genesis 25:14 and Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa,
Genesis 25:15 Hadad, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah:
Genesis 25:16 these are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their villages, and by their encampments; twelve princes according to their nations.
Genesis 25:17 And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, a hundred and thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died, and was gathered unto his people.
Genesis 25:18 And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur that is before Egypt, as thou goest toward Assyria: he abode over against all his brethren.
Genesis 25:19 And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abraham begat Isaac:
Genesis 25:20 and Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Paddan-aram, the sister of Laban the Syrian, to be his wife.
Genesis 25:21 And Isaac entreated Jehovah for his wife, because she was barren: and Jehovah was entreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived.
Genesis 25:22 And the children struggled together within her; and she said, If it be so, wherefore do I live? And she went to inquire of Jehovah.
Genesis 25:23 And Jehovah said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, And two peoples shall be separated from thy bowels: And the one people shall be stronger than the other people; And the elder shall serve the younger.
Genesis 25:24 And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb.
Genesis 25:25 And the first came forth red, all over like a hairy garment; and they called his name Esau.
Genesis 25:26 And after that came forth his brother, and his hand had hold on Esau's heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac was threescore years old when she bare them.
Genesis 25:27 And the boys grew: and Esau was a skilful hunter, a man of the field; and Jacob was a quiet man, dwelling in tents.
Genesis 25:28 Now Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his venison: and Rebekah loved Jacob.
Genesis 25:29 And Jacob boiled pottage: and Esau came in from the field, and he was faint:
Genesis 25:30 and Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red [pottage] ; for I am faint: therefore was his name called Edom.
Genesis 25:31 And Jacob said, Sell me first thy birthright.
Genesis 25:32 And Esau said, Behold, I am about to die: and what profit shall the birthright do to me?
Genesis 25:33 And Jacob said, Swear to me first; and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto Jacob.
Genesis 25:34 And Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentils; and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: so Esau despised his birthright.
Genesis 26:1 And there was a famine in the land, besides the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the Philistines, unto Gerar.
Genesis 26:2 And Jehovah appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into Egypt; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of:
Genesis 26:3 sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and unto thy seed, I will give all these lands, and I will establish the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father;
Genesis 26:4 and I will multiply thy seed as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed all these lands; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed;
Genesis 26:5 because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.
Genesis 26:6 And Isaac dwelt in Gerar:
Genesis 26:7 and the men of the place asked him of his wife; and he said, She is my sister: for he feared to say, My wife; lest, [said he], the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah; because she was fair to look upon.
Genesis 26:8 And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw, and, behold, Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife.
Genesis 26:9 And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she is thy wife: and how saidst thou, She is my sister? And Isaac said unto him, Because I said, Lest I die because of her.
Genesis 26:10 And Abimelech said, What is this thou hast done unto us? One of the people might easily have lain with thy wife, and thou wouldest have brought guiltiness upon us.
Genesis 26:11 And Abimelech charged all the people, saying, He that toucheth this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.
Genesis 26:12 And Isaac sowed in that land, and found in the same year a hundredfold: and Jehovah blessed him.
Genesis 26:13 And the man waxed great, and grew more and more until he became very great:
Genesis 26:14 and he had possessions of flocks, and possessions of herds, and a great household: and the Philistines envied him.
Genesis 26:15 Now all the wells which his father's servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped, and filled with earth.
Genesis 26:16 And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us; for thou art much mightier than we.
Genesis 26:17 And Isaac departed thence, and encamped in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there.
Genesis 26:18 And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham; and he called their names after the names by which his father had called them.
Genesis 26:19 And Isaac's servants digged in the valley, and found there a well of springing water.
Genesis 26:20 And the herdsmen of Gerar strove with Isaac's herdsmen, saying, The water is ours: and he called the name of the well Esek, because they contended with him.
Genesis 26:21 And they digged another well, and they strove for that also: and he called the name of it Sitnah.
Genesis 26:22 And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and for that they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth; and he said, For now Jehovah hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land.
Genesis 26:23 And he went up from thence to Beer-sheba.
Genesis 26:24 And Jehovah appeared unto him the same night, and said, I am the God of Abraham thy father: fear not, for I am with thee, and will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham's sake.
Genesis 26:25 And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of Jehovah, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaac's servants digged a well.
Genesis 26:26 Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath his friend, and Phicol the captain of his host.
Genesis 26:27 And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore are ye come unto me, seeing ye hate me, and have sent me away from you?
Genesis 26:28 And they said, We saw plainly that Jehovah was with thee: and we said, Let there now be an oath betwixt us, even betwixt us and thee, and let us make a covenant with thee,
Genesis 26:29 that thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not touched thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have sent thee away in peace: thou art now the blessed of Jehovah.
Genesis 26:30 And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink.
Genesis 26:31 And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to another: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace.
Genesis 26:32 And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac's servants came, and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto him, We have found water.
Genesis 26:33 And he called it Shibah: therefore the name of the city is Beer-sheba unto this day.
Genesis 26:34 And when Esau was forty years old he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Basemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite:
Genesis 26:35 and they were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah.
Genesis 27:1 And it came to pass, that when Isaac was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his elder son, and said unto him, My son: and he said unto him, Here am I.
Genesis 27:2 And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day of my death.
Genesis 27:3 Now therefore take, I pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiver and thy bow, and go out to the field, and take me venison;
Genesis 27:4 and make me savory food, such as I love, and bring it to me, that I may eat; that my soul may bless thee before I die.
Genesis 27:5 And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son. And Esau went to the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it.
Genesis 27:6 And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy father speak unto Esau thy brother, saying,
Genesis 27:7 Bring me venison, and make me savory food, that I may eat, and bless thee before Jehovah before my death.
Genesis 27:8 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which I command thee.
Genesis 27:9 Go now to the flock, and fetch me from thence two good kids of the goats; and I will make them savory food for thy father, such as he loveth:
Genesis 27:10 and thou shalt bring it to thy father, that he may eat, so that he may bless thee before his death.
Genesis 27:11 And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man.
Genesis 27:12 My father peradventure will feel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver; and I shall bring a curse upon me, and not a blessing.
Genesis 27:13 And his mother said unto him, Upon me be thy curse, my son; only obey my voice, and go fetch me them.
Genesis 27:14 And he went, and fetched, and brought them to his mother: and his mother made savory food, such as his father loved.
Genesis 27:15 And Rebekah took the goodly garments of Esau her elder son, which were with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob her younger son;
Genesis 27:16 and she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands, and upon the smooth of his neck:
Genesis 27:17 and she gave the savory food and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.
Genesis 27:18 And he came unto his father, and said, My father: and he said, Here am I; who art thou, my son?
Genesis 27:19 And Jacob said unto his father, I am Esau thy first-born; I have done according as thou badest me: arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul may bless me.
Genesis 27:20 And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast found it so quickly, my son? And he said, Because Jehovah thy God sent me good speed.
Genesis 27:21 And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, that I may feel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not.
Genesis 27:22 And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father; and he felt him, and said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau.
Genesis 27:23 And he discerned him not, because his hands were hairy, as his brother Esau's hands: so he blessed him.
Genesis 27:24 And he said, Art thou my very son Esau? And he said, I am.
Genesis 27:25 And he said, Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son's venison, that my soul may bless thee. And he brought it near to him, and he did eat: and he brought him wine, and he drank.
Genesis 27:26 And his father Isaac said unto him, Come near now, and kiss me, my son.
Genesis 27:27 And he came near, and kissed him: and he smelled the smell of his raiment, and blessed him, and said, See, the smell of my son Is as the smell of a field which Jehovah hath blessed:
Genesis 27:28 And God give thee of the dew of heaven, And of the fatness of the earth, And plenty of grain and new wine:
Genesis 27:29 Let peoples serve thee, And nations bow down to thee: Be lord over thy brethren, And let thy mother's sons bow down to thee: Cursed be every one that curseth thee, And blessed be every one that blesseth thee.
Genesis 27:30 And it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting.
Genesis 27:31 And he also made savory food, and brought it unto his father; and he said unto his father, Let my father arise, and eat of his son's venison, that thy soul may bless me.
Genesis 27:32 And Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thou? And he said, I am thy son, thy first-born, Esau.
Genesis 27:33 And Isaac trembled very exceedingly, and said, Who then is he that hath taken venison, and brought it me, and I have eaten of all before thou camest, and have blessed him? yea, [and] he shall be blessed.
Genesis 27:34 When Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with an exceeding great and bitter cry, and said unto his father, Bless me, even me also, O my father.
Genesis 27:35 And he said, Thy brother came with guile, and hath taken away thy blessing.
Genesis 27:36 And he said, Is not he rightly named Jacob? for he hath supplanted me these two times: he took away my birthright; and, behold, now he hath taken away my blessing. And he said, Hast thou not reserved a blessing for me?
Genesis 27:37 And Isaac answered and said unto Esau, Behold, I have made him thy lord, and all his brethren have I given to him for servants; and with grain and new wine have I sustained him: and what then shall I do for thee, my son?
Genesis 27:38 And Esau said unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? Bless me, even me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.
Genesis 27:39 And Isaac his father answered and said unto him, Behold, of the fatness of the earth shall be thy dwelling, And of the dew of heaven from above;
Genesis 27:40 And by thy sword shalt thou live, and thou shalt serve thy brother; And it shall come to pass, when thou shalt break loose, That thou shalt shake his yoke from off thy neck.
Genesis 27:41 And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his father blessed him: and Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father are at hand; then will I slay my brother Jacob.
Genesis 27:42 And the words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah; and she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him, Behold, thy brother Esau, as touching thee, doth comfort himself, [purposing] to kill thee.
Genesis 27:43 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice; and arise, flee thou to Laban my brother to Haran;
Genesis 27:44 and tarry with him a few days, until thy brother's fury turn away;
Genesis 27:45 until thy brother's anger turn away from thee, and he forget that which thou hast done to him: then I will send, and fetch thee from thence: why should I be bereaved of you both in one day?
Genesis 27:46 And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth: if Jacob take a wife of the daughters of Heth, such as these, of the daughters of the land, what good shall my life do me?
Genesis 28:1 And Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan.
Genesis 28:2 Arise, go to Paddan-aram, to the house of Bethuel thy mother's father; and take thee a wife from thence of the daughters of Laban thy mother's brother.
Genesis 28:3 And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a company of peoples;
Genesis 28:4 and give thee the blessing of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with thee; that thou mayest inherit the land of thy sojournings, which God gave unto Abraham.
Genesis 28:5 And Isaac sent away Jacob: and he went to Paddan-aram unto Laban, son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother.
Genesis 28:6 Now Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away to Paddan-aram, to take him a wife from thence; and that as he blessed him he gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan;
Genesis 28:7 and that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to Paddan-aram:
Genesis 28:8 and Esau saw that the daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father;
Genesis 28:9 and Esau went unto Ishmael, and took, besides the wives that he had, Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael Abraham's son, the sister of Nebaioth, to be his wife.
Genesis 28:10 And Jacob went out from Beer-sheba, and went toward Haran.
Genesis 28:11 And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all night, because the sun was set; and he took one of the stones of the place, and put it under his head, and lay down in that place to sleep.
Genesis 28:12 And he dreamed; and behold, a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven; and, behold, the angels of God ascending and descending on it.
Genesis 28:13 And, behold, Jehovah stood above it, and said, I am Jehovah, the God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed;
Genesis 28:14 and thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
Genesis 28:15 And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee whithersoever thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land; for I will not leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of.
Genesis 28:16 And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely Jehovah is in this place; and I knew it not.
Genesis 28:17 And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! this is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.
Genesis 28:18 And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put under his head, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it.
Genesis 28:19 And he called the name of that place Beth-el: but the name of the city was Luz at the first.
Genesis 28:20 And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put on,
Genesis 28:21 so that I come again to my father's house in peace, and Jehovah will be my God,
Genesis 28:22 then this stone, which I have set up for a pillar, shall be God's house: and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee.
Genesis 29:1 Then Jacob went on his journey, and came to the land of the children of the east.
Genesis 29:2 And he looked, and, behold, a well in the field, and, lo, three flocks of sheep lying there by it; for out of that well they watered the flocks: and the stone upon the well's mouth was great.
Genesis 29:3 And thither were all the flocks gathered: and they rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone again upon the well's mouth in its place.
Genesis 29:4 And Jacob said unto them, My brethren, whence are ye? And they said, Of Haran are we.
Genesis 29:5 And he said unto them, Know ye Laban the son of Nahor? And they said, We know him.